docs: appliance studio (#6589)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/prepare-user-data.md

---
sidebar_label: "Prepare User Data and Argument Files"
title: "Prepare User Data and Argument Files"
description: "Learn about building your staging user data and .arg file"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 2
tags: ["edge"]
---

> The EdgeForge process requires two configuration files. the `.arg` file and the `user-data` file. Each is responsible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EdgeForge process requires two configuration files. The `.arg` file and the `user-data` file. Each is responsible
```

| **Purpose**           | Configures the build process of the Edge Installer ISO and provider images.                 | Configures the installation and the immediate post-installation environment of the Edge host.       |
| **When It's Applied** | During Edge artifact generation (before deployment).                                        | During actual Edge host installation (after ISO boot).                                              |
| **Format**            | Key-value pairs.                                                                            | YAML in [cloud-init](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/) format                                      |
| **Main Contents**     | Image architecture, OS/K8s versions, image registry information, secure boot settings, etc. | Site information, proxy settings, network interfaces, cloud-init stages, tags, registration tokens. |
| **Focus**             | Artifact generation and packaging.                                                          | System initialization and registration.                                                             |

> | **Controls**          | What gets built and how. For example, FIPS, SELinux, installer ISO name.)                   | How the Edge host behaves post-install. For example, network config, certs, power off behavior.     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Controls**          | What gets built and how. For example, FIPS, SELinux, installer ISO name.                   | How the Edge host behaves post-install. For example, network config, certs, power off behavior.     |
```

Since the `.arg` file controls the build process, you must ensure you provide the correct settings during build. If you
provide the wrong arguments or miss any arguments, you will need to restart the build process to make changes. With

> `user-data`, you have an additional opportunity to provide additional configuration during site deployment as
> site-specific configuration. This can replace, supplement, or override your installer configuration you provide to the
> installer ISO. For more information, refer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`user-data`, you have an additional opportunity to provide site-specific configuration during site deployment. This can replace, supplement, or override the installer configuration you provide to the
installer ISO. For more information, refer to
```

[Apply Site User Data](../site-deployment/site-installation/site-user-data.md).

After installation, you can also use Local UI to make edits to the user data file before you create a cluster. Refer to
[Edit User Data](../local-ui/host-management/edit-user-data.md) for more information.

This article guides you through several important parameters in the `.arg` file and configuration blocks in the
`user-data` file. However, you can use many additional parameters to further customize your installation. Review the
[Edge Artifact Build Configurations](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/arg.md) and
[Installer Reference](../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md) resource to learn more about all the supported
configuration parameters you can use in the configuration user data.

> The [Appliance Studio](./appliance-studio.md) is a lightweight Graphic User Interface (GUI) that allows you to design

Reviewer 2: I feel this paragraph needs a header or something to highlight the two approaches the user has available to them.

> both files with zero risk of syntax errors and is our recommended approach to creating both files. However, since both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both files with zero risk of syntax errors. We recommend using this tool for file creation. However, since both
```

`.arg` and `user-data` are plain text files, you can also manually create and edit these files once you are familiar
with the parameters.

## Prerequisites

<Tabs group="method">

<TabItem value="Appliance Studio">

- A deployed instance of Appliance Studio. Refer to [Deploy Appliance Studio](./appliance-studio.md) to learn how to
  deploy Appliance Studio.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Manual File Creation">

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads). You can ensure git installation by issuing the `git --version` command.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Procedure

<Tabs group="method">

<TabItem value="Appliance Studio">

> ### Create .arg file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create .arg File
```

> 1. Visit the Appliance Studio in your browser.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the word "Visit" here. As far as I understood, the tool requires deploying. Maybe referencing the [Appliance Studio](https://deploy-preview-6589--docs-spectrocloud.netlify.app/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/appliance-studio/) page would be the better choice here?

> 2. Click **Design**. Then under **Argument files**, click **New .arg file**. If you have previously created and saved
>    preset, you can choose **Continue with presets**. Otherwise, click **Start from scratch**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Design**. Then under **Argument files**, click **New .arg file**. If you have previously created and saved
   a preset, you can choose **Continue with presets**. Otherwise, click **Start from scratch**.
```

3. Fill out each field in the form to customize your `.arg` file. Fields marked with `*` are mandatory. As you fill out
   each field, you can preview the `.arg` file in the code pane on the right. You can also make edits in the code pane
   directly, which will automatically update the form.

   Refer to [Edge Artifact Build Configurations](./palette-canvos/arg.md) for a description of each argument.

> 4. When you are done, click **Confirm & Save**. Give your new configuration a name and optionally tags that will help

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. When you are done, click **Confirm & Save**. Give your new configuration a name and optional tags that will help
```

   you identify it.

> 5. After you save the file, the file will appear under **Argument files**. Hover over the file to reveal the three-dot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After you save the file, it will appear under **Argument files**. Hover over the file to reveal the three-dot
```

>    menu. Click on it and click **Download** to download the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   menu. Click on it and choose **Download** to download the file.
```

### Create user-data File

> 1. Visit the Appliance Studio in your browser.

Reviewer: Same here, I'm not sure about "Visit", it doesn't seem to be that easy :)

2. Click **Design**. Then under **User data configuration**, click **New user-data configuration**. If you have

>    previously created and saved preset, you can choose **Continue with presets**. Otherwise, click **Start from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   previously created and saved a preset, you can choose **Continue with presets**. Otherwise, click **Start from
```

   scratch**.

3. Fill out each field in the form to customize your `user-data` file. Fields marked with `*` are mandatory. As you fill
   out each field, you can preview the `user-data` file in the code pane on the right. You can also make edits in the
   code pane directly, which will automatically update the form.

   Refer to [Installer Configuration Reference](../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md) for a description of each
   parameter.

4. When you are done, click **Confirm & Save**. Give your new configuration a name and optionally tags that will help
   you identify it.

   Once you save a `user-data` or `.arg` file, you can make edits to it at any time. To make edits, click on the file

>    entry and the form will appear for you to make edits.

Reviewer: I think, it would make sense to mention only the `user-data` file here and add a similar note for the `.arg` file to the step 4 of the "Create .arg File" section

> 5. After you save the file, the file will appear under **User data files**. Hover over the file to reveal the three-dot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After you save the file, it will appear under **User data files**. Hover over the file to reveal the three-dot
```

>    menu. Click on it and click **Download** to download the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   menu. Click on it and choose **Download** to download the file.
```

### (Optional) Create Presets for .arg and user-data Files

You can create presets to use as templates for future instances of your configuration files.

> 1. Visit the Appliance Studio in your browser.

Reviewer: Once again. not sure about "Visit"

2. Under either **Argument files** or **User data configuration**, click on the **Presets** tab.

> 3. Fill out each field in the form to customize your configuration. Since you are creating a preset, there are no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Fill out the required fields in the form to customize your configuration. Since you are creating a preset, there are no
```
Maybe like this? To not make users think they should fill out all the fields

   mandatory fields.

> 4. When you are done, click **Confirm & Save**. Give your new preset a name and optionally tags that will help you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. When you are done, click **Confirm & Save**. Give your new preset a name and optional tags that will help you
```

   identify it.

>    The next time you create a new instance of either the `user-data` file or `.arg` file, you will see be able to use

Author: ```suggestion
   The next time you create a new instance of either the `user-data` file or `.arg` file, you will be able to use
```

   From the **CanvOS** directory, copy the **user-data.template** file and name the copy **user-data**. This is a
   template that you can use as a starting point to build your own user data file.

2. View the available git tag.

   ```shell
   git tag
   ```

3. Check out the latest available tag. This guide uses the tag v4.6.c as an example.

   ```bash
   git checkout v4.6.c
   ```

> ### Prepare .arg File

Author: I think this is okay, because we already have the main anchor, which is the procedure anchor, not under the tabs. This is mostly to organize the steps, and not really for linking

   The Kubernetes version is specified in a different file named `k8s_version.json`.

3. Specify the image registry, image repository name, and image tag that will be used to tag your provider images. The
   custom tag, together with the Palette agent version (the same number as the Git tag you are using), the version and
   distribution of Kubernetes and the OS distribution used by the image forms the tag of the image.

   For example, if your `.arg` file contains the following arguments, the full image reference would be
   `ttl.sh/ubuntu:k3s-1.32.1-v4.6.c-demo`.

   ```text
   IMAGE_REGISTRY=ttl.sh
   IMAGE_REPO=ubuntu
   CUSTOM_TAG=demo
   K8S_DISTRIBUTION=k3s
   OS_DISTRIBUTION=ubuntu
   OS_VERSION=22
   ```

4. (Optional) If your build machine isn't in a restricted network environment, or your build process does not require
   access to a proxy server, skip this step.

   You can use `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` to specify the URLs of the proxy servers to be used for your build.

5. Refer to [Edge Artifact Build Configurations](./palette-canvos/arg.md) for a comprehensive list of arguments you can
   use to customize the build.

> ### Prepare User Data

Reviewer 2: This header appears on the right sidebar, but will not work when clicked if the **Manual File Creation** tab is not active. This is a limitation with Docusaurus, but are we okay with this?

   :::

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ## Validate

Reviewer 2: Are these validation steps relevant for Appliance Mode Studio?

I didn't think anyone using it would have had the CanvOS repo downloaded?

during the EdgeForge build process.

```
IMAGE_REGISTRY=ttl.sh
OS_DISTRIBUTION=Ubuntu
OS_VERSION=22
IMAGE_REPO=ubuntu-secure
CUSTOM_TAG=trusted-boot
K8S_DISTRIBUTION=rke2
ARCH=amd64
UPDATE_KERNEL=false
IS_UKI=true
```

The `.arg` file specifies `IS_UKI` to be true which tells the EdgeForge to build a Unified Kernel Image (UKI) required
for Trusted Boot. In addition, it also specifies the OS version and distribution, as well as the Kubernetes version.

### Two-Node Mode

Palette Edge allows you to provision highly available clusters with
[two control plane nodes](../architecture/two-node.md). Since the implementation replaces etcd with Postgres, this
alters the Kubernetes layer and requires a different provider image to be built than for regular etcd-backed clusters.
Therefore, you must specify `TWO_NODE=true` during the EdgeForge process in your `.arg` file.

```
IMAGE_REGISTRY=ttl.sh
OS_DISTRIBUTION=Ubuntu
OS_VERSION=22
IMAGE_REPO=ubuntu
CUSTOM_TAG=two-node
K8S_DISTRIBUTION=k3s
ARCH=amd64
HTTPS_PROXY=10.10.155.162
HTTP_PROXY=
PROXY_CERT_PATH=/etc/certs/proxy-cert
UPDATE_KERNEL=false
```

> In addition, this `.arg` file specifies an HTTPs proxy server, which means that the build process will communicate with

Author: ```suggestion
In addition, this `.arg` file specifies an HTTPS proxy server, which means that the build process will communicate with
```
